# GVHSSA
This is the repository for all technical files pertinent to the Greater Vancouver High School Science Olympics

Includes:
* Code for specific activities in events and competitions
* Code to sort internal data files

## Tool 1: RNA to Protein (VHSO-Friendly)

### Details:
This code takes in an **RNA string**, and produces the **first peptide chain** generated by the ribosome. 

### Usage instructions (Non-Git):
1. `Download ZIP` on top-right corner and unzip.
2. Save the `RNAtoProtein` folder to your `GVHSSAcode` folder you create on your `Desktop`.
3. Go to the **Command Line (Windows: Start -> All Programs -> Assessories -> Command Prompt) / Terminal (Mac)**, and into your `RNAtoProtein` folder using `cd`

In this example, I saved the `RNAtoProtein` folder in my `Desktop`'s `GVHSSAcode` folder.
Therefore, in your command line:
```
cd Desktop
cd GVHSSAcode
cd RNAtoProtein
```
What you type should go after the `$` sign on Mac, `..>` on Windows(i think).

4. install g++ by typing:
```
sudo apt-get install g++
```

4. Type the following code to run:
```
g++ protein-translation.cpp -o protein-translation.run
./protein-translation.run
```

5. It is running! Input your RNA and get your protein! Sample input with start and stop codons:
  `AUGUUCGACCAGUAG`



### Usage instructions (Git):
1. Download and install Git if you have not yet.
2. Go to the **Command Line/Terminal**, and into your `Desktop` using `cd`

Therefore I would do (on a Mac it would look like):
```
Last login: Sun Feb 28 20:41:02 on ttys000
Davids-MacBook-Pro-3:~ chessmaster$ cd Desktop
```
What you type should go after the `$` sign.

3. Type the following code (make sure you don't already have a folder named "GVHSSA" on Desktop):
```
Davids-MacBook-Pro-3:Desktop chessmaster$ git clone https://github.com/mrchessmaster/GVHSSA.git
Davids-MacBook-Pro-3:Desktop chessmaster$ cd GVHSSA
Davids-MacBook-Pro-3:GVHSSA chessmaster$ cd RNAtoProtein
```

4. Type the following code to run:
```
Davids-MacBook-Pro-3:RNAtoProtein chessmaster$ g++ protein-translation.cpp -o protein-translation.run
Davids-MacBook-Pro-3:RNAtoProtein chessmaster$ ./protein-translation.run
```

5. It is running! Input your RNA and get your protein! Sample input with start and stop codons:
  `AUGUUCGACCAGUAG`
